[Ben-Ami R, Berman J, Novikov A, et al. Multidrug-Resistant Candida haemulonii and C. auris, Tel Aviv, Israel. Emerging Infectious Diseases. 2017;23(2):195-203. doi:10.3201/eid2302.161486.](https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eid/article/23/2/16-1486_article)

The authors report their experiments with two emerging infectious yeast strains, *Candida auris* and *Candida haemulonii*, isolated from hospitalized patients. While phenotypically difficult to differentiate in most clinical laboratories, the researchers find that *C. auris*, when compared to *C. haemulonii*, demonstrates a more robust heat tolerance during incubation, a greater virulence in infected mice, and a higher activity in transporting antifungal molecules out of the cell. Furthermore they find that *C. haemulonii* is most often isolated from peripheral wound sites, while *C. auris* is most often isolated from the bloodstream. These differences are most effectively highlighted by the finding that only 20% of immunocompromised mice survive inoculation with *C. auris*, while 100% of immunocompromised mice survive inoculation with *C. haemulonii*. This is concerning because most diagnostic laboratories do not have *C. auris* in the database of their automatic identification platforms and misidentify *C. auris* as *C. haemulonii*. Of nine patient samples containing yeast originally identified in a clinical laboratory as *C. haemulonii*, six were later PCR identified by the researchers as *C. auris*. The authors conclude that greater suspicion for *C. auris* is warranted, especially when the sample is isolated from the bloodstream and a laboratory diagnosis of *C. haemulonii* is presumed.
